I don't know why this isn't working...
I normally don't have issues with this!
I've noticed a couple of things that, if we reajust,
can make a real difference.
What do you think of your landmarking?
Well, I mean, I am using a lateral approach. I've identified the patella.
I'm going in the lower portion of it. I don't know why it's not working.
So, you're correct about your landmarking,
especially using the patella as your landmark
but remember the synovium is mostly found at
the surperior part of the knee
so if you use the superior approach that might be helpful.
Ok, I guess I remembered it wrong. I mean that makes more sense.
And there's landmarking and there is positionning as well.
How would you position a real patient?
Well, normally I would have the patient closer
to the lateral edge of the bed
and then I normally put something under the knee to support it.
So why don't you attempt it again and try using that technique? Now?
Let's do it right now! Ok!
Ok!
Ah! There you go!
Excellent, you can see by repositioning the
patient and releasing the tendons
that you were able to, even with the mannequin,
you were able to do that.
Where did you learn how to do the technique?
A senior resident showed me in emerg and I read
up on it today before the session.
Excellent! It is great to learn from peers and also good to read about it
but sometimes you have to watch an expert do it.
Have you had a chance to watch the videos from
the New England Journal of Medicine?
You know what, we got the links for those last year and
that's a great idea! I will look at them when I get home.
That would be wonderful. Just another thing, your sterile technique;
the patient's draped properly and you're gowned and masked properly
but there is another way you can do it.
You can use your gloves and your mask as always
but you can landmark the patient first, sterilise the site,
and then use what is called the no touch technique.
Yes, that is what the resident did in emerg,
but I'm just more comfortable doing it this way so
I don't contaminate anything.
From a patient safety perspective you are doing the right thing
but just to know that you can do the other technique as well.
Perfect. Ok. Well, thank you!
Let's clean up and move onto the next station.
Sounds good!